The target is gone, and the Earth is saved.
Thank you for all your hard work this past year.
I imagine there are some things you'll find hard to swallow.
You'll have all eyes on you for a while, I'm afraid,
and I'm sure they'll be asking you to keep quiet about confidential matters.
I'll do my utmost to protect you, of course,
but allow me to apologize in advance.
It's all good, Karasuma-sensei.
We'll do our best to get this settled peacefully, too.
We don't want to complicate things for you either.
But in return, we do have one request.
Please let us attend Kunugigaoka's graduation ceremony today.
Our days spent battling with the main campus
are yet another precious memory we made with Korosensei.
Sure, I'll arrange it. After all, that's why I'm here.
All students, please rise!
Karasuma-sensei, Bitch-sensei, thank you both for everything you've taught us!
Thank you!
So where is graduation, anyway?
School's locked up tight. Looks like it's at the civic center.
We'll need our folks to bring by our uniforms.
There must still be some lingering sadness, and yet...
How strong they've become.
They're almost unrecognizable compared to a year ago.
tonikaku mou chotto matte tonikaku mou chotto matte
"Wait, just hang on a sec!"
sakebi mo munashiku kiete sakebi mo munashiku kiete
I scream, but it gets me nowhere
boku wa tadatada semaru limit
I put all my strength into being afraid
zenryoku obietetan da zenryoku obietetan da
Of the limits that just keep on closing in
genjitsu to wa youshanakute genjitsu to wa youshanakute
Reality is merciless Reality is merciless
toku ni jikan wa yabai ne toku ni jikan wa yabai ne
And time is especially tricky
sorenashi ja nemurenai blanket ubawareteku no ni niteru
It's like someone's snatching away my security blanket
taai mo nai imi mo wakannai taai mo nai imi mo wakannai
We laughed and fretted We laughed and fretted
koto de warattari nayandari koto de warattari nayandari
Over silly things, nonsensical things
saigo no chaimu narihibikeba
Once the final bell rings out tanoshii toki mo owaru
tanoshii toki mo owaru The fun times will be over, too
The fun times will be over, too Assassination
Classroom
bye bye yesterday bye bye yesterday Bye-bye, yesterday
Bye-bye, yesterday
sanbyaku-rokujuu-gonichi bun no manabi wo kaban ni tsumekonde
365 days' worth of lessons shoved into bags
itsumo mitai mata ashita teki ni
Like always, as though we'll see each other tomorrow
bye bye yesterday bye bye yesterday Bye-bye, yesterday
Bye-bye, yesterday
sanbyaku-rokujuu-gonichi bun no dekigoto
365 days' worth of happenings
boku wo otona ni shita nara namida nante mise mo shinaide
If you've taught me how to be an adult, don't be showing me tears
bye bye yesterday bye bye yesterday Bye-bye, yesterday
Bye-bye, yesterday
sanbyaku-rokujuu-gonichi bun no omoide
365 days' worth of memories 365 days' worth of memories
Congratulations on your graduation!
motto otona ni nattemo motto otona ni nattemo
Even if I grow up some more Even if I grow up some more
sukoshi mo iroasenai sa sukoshi mo iroasenai sa
They won't fade one bit from my mind
25th Period Kayano Kaede & Shiota Nagisa Future Time
Kunugigaoka Junior High Graduation Ceremony
Korosensei never said anything about the E-Class system being wrong
or about us trying to change it.
Kurahashi Hinano.
Sir!
This world is full of unfair things by nature.
If you have the time to be resentful and resigned to that...
Shiota Nagisa!
Sir!
Kunugigaoka Junior High Graduation Ceremony
...wouldn't it be more fun to spend it trying to change things?
He taught us plenty of ways to do just that.
You have a much sharper look in your eyes these days.
The fruit of your teacher's instruction, I'm sure.
Thank you. And you can take yours down a notch...
But please do take care!
That was a nice ceremony, wasn't it?
I was really moved!
Right?
Huh?!
Mom, Dad... Why are you here together?
At the end of last month,
that monster—your teacher—paid me a visit.
Nagisa-kun asked me a favor at the very start:
he wanted to be called by his first name, not his last.
That way, he said, he won't have to readjust in class
if he goes back to using his father's name.
He's a fine, respectable young man.
He's likely to meet his major goal in March.
Please give him your blessing—as a family.
Both he and your mother told me how hard you worked
and how determined you were in making it this far.
Your father and I have talked it over.
We'll follow your example and work hard to give us another try.
Huh?
Just how many life-changing legacies did our teacher need to leave behind?
The ceremony's over!
It's interview time!
E Class, a word?
This place is off limits!
Tell us about the monster!
How do you feel right now?
Did you really kill him?
Hey, buddy, outta the way!
You vultures! Spare a thought for the students' feelings for once!
Who cares?!
Outside, everyone! Quickly!
There's a bus waiting outside the main gate!
Hey!
Ow!
What the—?!
Wh-What the hell are you doing?!
Quit meddling with our coverage!
You quit meddling with our moment in the sun!
After a little editing, I might just release this online!
We know what you look like!
Now, let us escort you to the front gate.
For many of us, our ties and our relationship end today,
but we are still students who studied at the same school.
To abandon you now would bring shame upon me as your ruler.
Akabane?
Seems you're the only one staying on.
Once all this blows over, I'll have you grilled until you spill the beans.
You'll tell me about this Korosensei guy who managed to make you all who you are.
Sure, I don't mind.
It might have a hard time getting through that stodgy old skull of yours, though.
C'mon, you're the last one.
Whoa!
Off you go.
A day like today, with so many reasons for tears...
I doubt I'll see another like it.
The clear blue sky Good-bye, Kunugigaoka Junior High.
Good-bye, Class 3-E.
The same as on that day Good-bye...
Ah, up here on this hill Korosensei.
Farewells come around
The vapor trails that hold our hopes
Lots of stuff happened after that.
Rise up high, shining white
Kunugigaoka Academy came under fire for putting its students in harm's way.
Keep Out No Trespassing Keep Out No Trespassing
Keep Out No Trespassing The cherry blossoms Keep Out
No Trespassing Keep Out No Trespassing Keep Out
No Trespassing Keep Out No Trespassing
The E-Class system was also seen as problematic and was abolished.
Keep Out No Trespassing Keep Out No Trespassing
Keep Out No Trespassing Bloom now, full and proud
After we left, the E-Class campus closed its doors for good.
The principal had to relinquish his administrative powers.
Our time Our school, growing distant now
But I got the feeling he had accounted for that already.
Both our bitter memories and our joy
He was a man of tough convictions and prodigious wit,
and I'm sure he found another job in education soon after.
Were in that classroom Can we help, Asano-sensei?
Parting time Ah, Nagai-kun and Mori-san!
Our youth may be incomplete How many years has it been?
We heard things were really rough.
Both for you and for the students who came after us.
But our dazzling days will be
Is there anything we can do?
In our diploma
We'd be glad to give something back to our mentor.
Well, let's see.
Can I ask you one favor, then?
I close my eyes and see them, so vivid
Will you celebrate this new start for me and your juniors?
Come, let's drink.
Ah, the precious pain and kindness
We'll talk about what you're doing now,
and I'll air out my complaints.
We'll listen to anything you have to say.
Coming back to me All three of us.
We laid out our dreams on those desks
The thirty-billion-yen bounty...
And we'll think of them many, many times
was promptly paid out.
Karasuma-sensei said it was also hush money of a sort.
The cherry blossoms Bloom now, full and proud
We talked it over,
referring to Korosensei's book of advice.
The accomplishment's the thing!
Our time
You can't grow up right if you live your life relying on piles of money!
The last bell rings out And so...
we each took some for our education and a down payment for living on our own,
A message written on the blackboard and in our hearts
donated here and there to various places,
and finally made one big-ticket purchase together.
"I'm sure we'll meet again"
The rest we returned to the government in thanks for their year of support.
Parting time
Karasuma-sensei—I mean, Karasuma-san's reputation is sure to rise.
We're overcome with emotions
Both this bright light and the heartbreak will simply be
The moon began to crumble, slowly but surely.
Under its own gravity, it would eventually end up a much smaller sphere than before.
In our diploma
The explosion had also brought it closer to Earth,
so after a while, its size, shape, gravity, and orbit
would start to look and feel very similar to how it was before its destruction.
The crescent moon that symbolized our year together
would slowly forget its shape.
Assassination Classroom Final Season Shiota Nagisa
Ministry of Defense Ministry of Defense
There's been some dangerous movement from an organization that incites violence in the Middle East.
The plan is for each country to send in a secret agent to infiltrate their group.
You'll head there tomorrow, Irina.
Okay, sure...
But I'm scared, Chief Karasuma.
If a gorgeous woman like me was captured in dangerous territory, could you imagine?
Or does it turn you on?
Picturing your wife having all kinds of things done to her...
I asked you to go because I had faith in your abilities.
But if that's really how you see yourself...
Then I have no choice. I'll ask someone else.
Huh? But—
I was joking! I just wanted you to show a little concern!
Come on, sweetie!
So you're going?
I'm going!
Then go get ready!
Yes, sir! Gladly!
It's been seven years since we met...
and she hasn't changed a bit.
I wonder if our students—
or should I say, his students too—are doing all right?
Female Lead:
Mase Haruna Mase Haruna Mase Haruna Mase Haruna
Mase Haruna Mase Haruna Mase Haruna Female Lead:
Mase Haruna Mase Haruna Mase Haruna
Hey-hey, Miss TV Drama Actress!
Hi, everyone!
Kaede-chan, are you in costume?
Are you sure you're not too busy?
I sneaked out on a break.
I can't always let the rest of you do all the work.
All right!
Okay, folks! Let's start polishing up this place!
Yeah! Let's do it!
Once class president, always class president!
Well, you all practically forced me to hold on to the key!
This kind of stuff's always been best left to you.
Hey, are you done reading "Korosensei's Rules to Live By"?
Nowhere near! It never ends.
People have been leaving their trash around here again.
And we even bought the mountain and everything.
It's okay. When there's a mess, we clean it up—
that's one of the rules on this campus.
But man, you sure have hit the big time, Kayano-chan.
Well, geez...
She's got the looks, she can handle action,
and she can dive off a thirty-meter cliff with a smile.
It'd be weirder if she weren't so big.
No, no... I'm just relying on stuff I learned during junior high.
And, Okajima-kun, quit the low-angle shots and get to work.
We agreed that we didn't need a grave.
After all...
it didn't feel like they were gone.
This school is where the two of them are now—
a place we'll always return to.
We should think about putting this place to some use, not just preserving it.
You know, before we get too busy with job-hunting.
Okano's using the other side of the mountain.
She formed an acrobatic performance squad at her sports college.
Said this was the training field she's most used to.
We'll run the circuit! Follow me!
Hup! Hup! C'mon! Faster!
Whoa... And Kurahashi's giving nature tours to kids.
She's always had her ways of earning a little extra allowance.
Okay, this way! Watch your step!
Okay!
We've all grown up just how Korosensei taught us.
Look at Manami-chan and Takebayashi-kun—
taking hints from the cell activation protocol in their guidebooks,
they're developing an artificial blood that can be transfused regardless of blood type.
This has the potential to save hundreds of millions of lives!
Okuda-san did the bulk of the development.
I'd like to take it into the clinical realm myself.
We call it "Rh slither blood."
Sugino-kun's become a college baseball ace.
Strike three! Batter out!
Yes!
His versatile pitching has even caught the eye of pro scouts.
It slithers and curves even more than rumored!
That Slithery Sugino is a tough one!
Terasaka-kun's strength and guts have been recognized by a certain politician.
Hey! We'll be late for the lecture!
Are you a man or a mouse, boy?
That old fart, workin' his student to the bone!
Maybe he'll start as a personal assistant once he's out of college.
Yoshida Yoshida Motors Motors
Yoshida-kun and Muramatsu-kun are taking over their family businesses.
Listen to that purr! Ain't it great?
I guess, yeah!
Shourai-ken Ramen Gyoza Check this out, Takuya!
Bet it's tasty!
What?! How do you expect to make any profit using such fancy ingredients, ya dummy?!
Itona-kun went to his family's factory straight out of high school.
If I have any problems on the management side,
I'll get Yoshida-kun and Muramatsu to help.
And that's his plan.
Ritsu's made a home for herself online.
Now that I'm doing parallel processing with computers around the world,
I can even make songs and draw pictures!
Now she's helping out her former 3-E classmates with more emotions than ever before.
We've all been stretching ourselves as needed,
steadily deciding our paths in life.
Oh, you hear about Karma?
I heard he passed the management-track national civil service exam like it was nothing.
Good luck finding flaws in that guy.
The hard part comes after, though.
I hear bureaucracy is really stressful work.
All the bullying during the interviews and the training
really tests how you stand up to stress.
Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry Huh...
So this is where I'll make my money, eh?
But I'm sure he'll be fine.
Wait!
Okajima... Yikes!
You haven't changed at all, have you?!
Looks like you haven't either!
komorebi ga yasashiku sashikomu ookina mado no naka
As the dappled sunlight shone gently through the window
No matter which path we chose,
Korosensei probably would have smiled and said the same thing:
"It suits you."
kimi to deatta ano hi wo tooku ni kanjita
The day I met you felt so far away
We learned so many different kinds of life from him in just one year.
And even now... they live on inside us.
sukoshi zutsu narabeta omoide wa boku wo atatameru
The memories I've arranged little by little keep me warm
The life named "pride"...
chiisana heya tsunagu kokoro sotto oshiete kureta
A small room, hearts connecting: you taught me gently
Listen, I don't have ten times the estimate!
You said you'd leave it all up to my artistic sense!
The life we share...
How about we visit that park over there today?
kono kisetsu ga mukae ni kitara kimi no sugata mou sagasu koto mo
Once this season comes for me, I won't be able
The life we're given...
Isn't Euler's polyhedral formula so, like, the coolest thing ever?
The life we want to raise someday.
I hope we can continue to carry them on—
dekinaku nacchaun da ne dekinaku nacchaun da ne
To seek you out anymore, will I?
dakedo bokura wa warau yo dakedo bokura wa warau yo
But we won't lose our smiles
the lessons from scrambling for life in a classroom swirling with bloodlust.
mata kimi ni aitai kara mata kimi ni aitai kara
Because I want to see you again
This classroom is our greatest memento of Korosensei.
And I know there's someone I'd like to see using it one day.
So, Kayano-chan, what's up with Nagisa-kun? Are you two in touch?
Well...
I'm... not really on his radar right now.
You know him. He's one assassin who always has his eyes on his target.
Hello, everybody!
I'm Shiota Nagisa, the student teacher in charge of this class.
Seven years have passed.
I've grown way taller and become a teacher loved by all.
If only.
Huh? A student teacher?
You're shittin' me!
Hey, that's a girl!
Let's pull down her pants and make sure!
C'mon, you're still in junior high, ain'tcha?
Why me?
How could I have not grown the tiniest bit since junior high?!
7 Years Later 7 Years Later
Everyone else shot right up!
Hey, sis!
Look how much I've grown!
And Karma's over six feet tall! Give me a break!
And this hell is where I wind up for my teacher's traineeship.
The power dynamic is the polar opposite of our assassination classroom!
Do you know what kind of place this high school even is?
If you don't wanna wind up in the hospital, better make this period study hall.
Th-The bell's rung, so take your seats, class.
"Take youw sheetsh, cwassh."
You don't get to boss us around. Try it, and we'll kill you.
Eh?
Kill?
Kill, huh?
A commonplace word,
one that anyone will have heard.
But for us, it's a magic word that gives us courage.
I do hope you can kill me—
before graduation, that is.
Now, take your seats,
and let's begin.
Directed by Kishi Seiji